import { Meta, Story, Source } from '@storybook/blocks';

import * as Stories from './Filters.stories';

<Meta of={Stories} />

# Filters

<Story of={Stories.Base} />

Filters are defined on the colDef of each column using the prop `cellFilter`,
and some of the presets has a predefined filter, also there is a several
functions for work with your data and apply this predefined presets, and as
filters are integrated on the table you will have a prop `showFilters` on the
table to show them or not.

The next are a simple example

<Source
  language='tsx'
  code={`
import {
  type ContextOptions,
  type FilterContext,
  filterDataByFilterStruct,
  useFilterStruct,
  filterColDefsByFilterStruct,
  BasicTable,
} from '@devoinc/genesys-ui-table';

const data = [
  { text: 'Christine Jimenez', num: 60, bool: false, option: 'A' },
  { text: 'Ina Osborne', num: 20, bool: true, option: 'B' },
  { text: 'Jimmy Hogan', num: 20, bool: true, option: 'C' },
  { text: 'Myra Bell', num: 57, bool: true, option: 'C' },
  { text: 'Jane Padilla', num: 46, bool: false, option: 'B' },
  { text: 'Isabelle Gardner', num: 31, bool: true, option: 'A' },
  { text: 'Sean Parsons', num: 31, bool: true, option: 'A' },
  { text: 'Alvin Castro', num: 55, bool: false, option: 'B' },
  { text: 'Lawrence Holland', num: 56, bool: false, option: 'B' },
  { text: 'Brandon Robertson', num: 41, bool: true, option: 'C' },
];

const colDefs = [
  {
    id: 'text',
    headerName: 'Text',
    preset: 'text',
  },
  {
    id: 'num',
    headerName: 'Number',
    preset: 'number',
    context: {
      showAdvancedFilter: true,
      showReset: true,
    } as FilterContext,
  },
  {
    id: 'bool',
    headerName: 'Boolean',
    preset: 'boolean',
  },
  {
    id: 'option',
    headerName: 'Options',
    preset: 'options',
    context: {
      options: {
        A: { label: 'Option A' },
        B: { label: 'Option B' },
        C: { label: 'Option C' },
      },
    } as ContextOptions,
  },
];

const FilterTable = () => {
  const { filterStruct, onFilter } = useFilterStruct();
  const dataFiltered = [...data].filter(filterDataByFilterStruct(filterStruct));

  return (
    <BasicTable
      showFilters
      onFilter={(curColDef, value, type) => {
        onFilter(curColDef.id, value, type);
      }}
      colDefs={filterColDefsByFilterStruct(colDefs, filterStruct)}
      data={dataFiltered}
    />
  );
};
`}
/>

## The hook `useFilterStruct`

This hook store the current filters state and provide this state and a function
for update the state

<Source
  language="tsx"
  code={`
const { filterStruct, onFilter } = useFilterStruct();
`}
/>

We could see how to use the `onFilter` function in the example

<Source
  language="tsx"
  code={`
<BasicTable
  ...
  onFilter={(curColDef, value, type) => {
    onFilter(curColDef.id, value, type);
  }}
  ...
/>
`}
/>

The function accept the column `id` the value of the `filter` and the `type` of the
filter. The `value` of the filter could be whatever the filter need, sometimes
it will be a string other could be a complex structure. The `type` is a string
with some identification over the kind of the filter we are providing, each
predefined filters has one with the same name as the column that represents, for
example the `TextFilter` use the type `text`, etc... This type will help us
later on apply the right filter to our data.

## Filtering our data

As we have our filter structure stored now is the time to apply it on our data

<Source
  language="tsx"
  code={`
const dataFiltered = [...data].filter(filterDataByFilterStruct(filterStruct));
`}
/>

The function is called `filterDataByFilterStruct` and accept the `filterStruct`
defined on the hook. Remember that this `filterStruct` accept any `value` and
`type` so if we need to build a custom filter we still be able to apply it to
our data using this function but using the second parameter for pass an object
of filter functions with the `type` as key (we will see an example of this
later).

## Updating our `colDefs`

Ok, right now we have filtered our data, but the table are mainly stateless so
how we are telling to our filters that they need to update, for this we have the
next function

<Source
  language="tsx"
  code={`
<BasicTable
  ...
  colDefs={filterColDefsByFilterStruct(colDefs, filterStruct)}
  ...
/>
`}
/>
